It was a beautful morning at the end of November During the night it had snowed, but only a little, 
and the earth was covered with a cool blanket no more than three fingers high. In the darkness, 
immediately after lauds, we heard Mass in a village in the valley.
Then, as the sun first appeared, we set off toward the mountains.
While we toiled up the steep path that wound around the mountain, I saw the abbey.
 I was amazed, not by the walls that girded it on every side, 
similar to others to be seen in all the Christian world, but by the bulk of what I later learned was the Aedificium. 
This was an octagonal construction that from a distance seemed a tetragon (a perfect form, which expresses the sturdiness and impregnability of the City of God), whose southern sides stood on the plateau of the abbey, while the northern ones seemed to grow from the steep side of the mountain, a sheer drop, to which they were bound. I might say that from below, at certain points, the cliff seemed to extend, reaching up toward the heavens, with the rock's same colors and material, which at a certain point became keep and tower (work of giants who had great familiarity with earth and sky). 
Three rows of windows proclaimed the triune rhythm of its elevation, so that what was physically squared on the earth was spiritually triangular in the sky. 
As we came closer, we realized that the quadrangular form included, at each of its corners, a heptagonal tower, five sides of which were visible on the outside 
— four of the eight sides, then, of the greater octagon producing four minor heptagons, which from the outside appeared as pentagons. 
And thus anyone can see the admirable concord of so many holy numbers, each revealing a subtle spiritual significance.
Eight, the number of perfection for every tetragon; four, the number of the Gospels; five, the number of the zones of the world; seven, the number of the gifts of the Holy Ghost. 
In its bulk and in its form, the Aedificium resembled Castel Ursino or Castel del Monte, which I was to see later in the south of the Italian peninsula, 
but its inaccessible position made it more awesome than those, and capable of inspiring fear in the traveler who approached it gradually. 
And it was fortunate that, since it was a very clear winter morning, I did not first see the building as it appears on stormy days.
I will not say, in any case, that it prompted feelings of jollity. 
I felt fear, and a subtle uneasiness. God knows these were not phantoms of my immature spirit, 
and I was rightly interpreting indubitable omens inscribed in the stone the day that the giants began their work, and before the deluded determination of the monks dared consecrate the building to the preservation of the divine word.
As our little mules strove up the last curve of the mountain, where the main path divided into three, producing two side paths, my master stopped for a while, to look around: at the sides of the road, at the road itself, and above the road, where, for a brief stretch, a series of evergreen pines formed a natural roof, white with snow. 
"A rich abbey," he said. "The abbot likes a great display on public occasions."
Accustomed as I was to hear him make the most unusual declarations, I did not question him. 
This was also because, after another bit of road, we heard some noises, and at the next turn an agitated band of monks and servants appeared. One of them, seeing us, came toward us with great cordiality. 
"Welcome, sir," he said, "and do not be surprised if I can guess who you are, because we have been advised of your visit. 
I am Remigio of Varagine, the cellarer of the monastery. And if you, as I believe, are Brother William of Baskerville, the abbot must be informed. 
You"— he commanded one of his party —"go up and tell them that our visitor is about to come inside the walls."
"I thank you, Brother Cellarer," my master replied politely, "and I appreciate your courtesy all the more since, in order to greet me, you have interrupted your search. 
But don't worry. The horse came this way and took the path to the right. He will not get far, because he will have to stop when he reaches the dungheap. 
He is too intelligent to plunge down that precipitous slope..." 
"When did you see him?" the cellarer asked.
"We haven't seen him at all, have we, Adso?" William said, turning toward me with an amused look. 
"But if you are hunting for Brunellus, the horse can only be where I have said."
The cellarer hesitated. He looked at William, then at the path, and finally asked, "Brunellus? How did you know?"